want to know how to design your website
to hook ideal clients
and why so many websites suck hey i'm
sam dunning
co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com and
host of the top 100 marketing podcast
business growth show all right so let's
jump straight in with this rather
controversial
subject on why so many websites suck so
what i see way too many times is where
companies freelancers or companies even
do it themselves with our own
marketing team will just redesign their
site to either strike their own if
they're
perhaps an entrepreneur or a solopreneur
or their ceos
or maybe their head of marketing on the
marketing director's ego
what i mean by that is they're designing
the website they're building the look
and feel
the main features the structure the
content the copy
all around what they think looks good
instead of what their target audience
looks good so
the content is probably all me
orientated so it's completely about look
this is how great we are we're
award-winning we've done all this cool
stuff
um we've done all these cool shows our
product is so good we have all these
features
um when probably a lot of us know that
simply talking about yourself whether
you're a salesperson whether you're
having a conversation with a friend
if it's all me me me me me people switch
off
very quickly very fast and the chances
are you're not going to win that
potential business
so what is the solution well we need to
design our websites
as well as our content our copy for our
ideal customers
not to stroke our own egos
some things we need to consider straight
away when we're
building a fresh site for our business
or perhaps redesigning is
why are we doing this so maybe if we're
doing a redesign perhaps our website
right now we've looked at our google
analytics maybe we've looked at our data
perhaps we're spending money on
marketing so maybe we're doing ads maybe
doing seo
maybe we're doing social media or video
content we're driving people to the site
maybe we're doing an email list too
but the website is not producing perhaps
a steady flow of inbound leads
or calls or for e-commerce perhaps it's
not driving the sales we want
so we want to look at ways to redesign
the site to hook more inbound
leads and sales we need to think about
who is this target market market who's
the main audience we want to track so
i need to have a look at are you
typically looking at marketing directors
in tech companies are you dealing with
tradesmen who is
who's your best customer who is the
actual person that you want to
land on this site and you want to get
leads sales from
and what do we want them to do on the
site do we want them to quickly learn
about what we can do
how we can help do we want to provide
them with useful resources perhaps ebook
downloads
do you want them to actually book a call
with us look at demo
do you want them to purchase a product
so make a note
of actually why we're doing this website
all the key things that are important
from
both a user's perspective and our
businesses perspective in terms of what
what we want the action for them to take
how we want them to
drive revenue so whether that's leads or
whether that's we want to drive sales
so all these main important points of
why we're doing the site otherwise it's
a waste of time
now to the juicy part how are we going
to get all this information what's going
to guide us
on creating a site that our ideal
customers will love
well we need to interview them so make a
list of depending on how many customers
you've got
ideally up to 10 or so of your very best
customers
so these are customers that you enjoy
working with
so it's not a chore when you do business
with them you actually have fun
it's actually something you're
passionate about and you enjoy the type
of work
and that drive revenue but not just any
revenue profitable
revenue that's helping your business
scale and grow once you've made a list
of these very best customers a range of
cool with them so
best is a skype or a zoom session that
you record
or worst case scenario you can do it via
email if they're not up for a call
so once we've got this list of customers
we need to ask them some pretty specific
questions
so best way like i say is to get a video
call done and record it and you'll find
out why you want to call it shortly
so you want to ask some things like how
did you find us so what i mean by that
is how did you stumble across us was it
google search if so what did you search
was a paid ad a facebook ad google ad
were you referred
find out all that intel around that why
did you
buy from us specifically as opposed to
the competition
so this is going to give you useful
questions they're probably going to talk
about the competitors that they looked
at
so you can do some research on who your
competitors are um
from your customers mouth and then
they'll give you some juicy nuggets as
to why they chose to purchase with you
it might be because of how you handle
the project it might be because of
the discovery call you had with them or
the proposal you sent across but find
out
exactly why what problem do they come to
you with
so often as businesses we make the
mistake of
guessing the problems our customers have
and i've been guilty of this in the past
um and it's it's really really really
useful so just literally ask a question
what problem was it you came to us with
and it's quite often not the thing that
you expected um
how do we help you fix the problem so
again
just ask the question then shut up um
because again it's very often
not what you expected what's life like
now we fix this problem
so how is it now we've sorted the
solution we've provided you the solution
or if you didn't fix a problem what's
life like now we've provided ex solution
to help you
get the job done again this is going to
give you some really useful intel for
how you've made their life their
business improve
and what was most important to yourself
and when you're looking
at a website for a vendor for a company
like ours
so again this this is going to give you
some golden nuggets
so maybe they say things like when i'm
looking at a company like yours i really
need to know
and they've got examples of case studies
in our sector or maybe they'll say i
want to see testimonials or review
videos
or maybe they say i want to understand
who's in your team
but again shut up let them talk find out
all these key points of what is most
important
when they are looking at a vendor like
yours is website
so again make notes on these points or
if you can record the session they're
crawled to cool
if this is a redesigned job so if you're
redesigning a current site
then ask them how easy is our current
website to understand
how we can help you so we're saying
things like
could you jump straight onto our site
and did you quickly understand what we
do
how we help how to get in touch with us
um take the feedback here how easy was
it to do business with us
i how easy was it to call us to email us
to inquire with us or to purchase if you
sell things
what could be improved um and i
recommend on all these
specific questions if you are looking at
a redesign to ask
on a scale of one to ten so that way
they can say look
i probably give this a seven i'll give
this a five i'll give this a four and
here's why
and then an open ended question what
could be improved and again just let
them talk
because they'll probably give you a lot
of nice little tips on
different bits and pieces that they feel
you could improve your site with
and once we've got those once we've got
these recordings we've got these email
conversations review the data
so we want to review all these golden
nuggets we've talked about um
and once we've gone through each one we
want to make a list
of the most common responses it's not
the things that are said maybe once or
twice
but things were consist consistently
responded to with similar answers
against each question
how can it help us well this is going to
help the the new website design and
build in a
massive amount of ways it's also going
to help your own customer service your
sales and your marketing
going forward so if you're not entering
idle customers now is the time to jump
on it because it's huge
so it's going to inform your copy for
your website
so many businesses and we have been in
the past have been guilty of
you go on their site and it's all me me
me like we talked about the start
so maybe the main website home page
headline is we're award winning we're
the best in class we're so good
x y and z we are simply the greatest and
in truth no one really cares they want
to go on your website
and they want to know exactly what you
do how you can help them how to get in
touch
and usually juicy ways to do this are
having a headline that's
kind of problem centric that talks about
the juiciest problem you sold for your
customers
or talks about something really
important to them that they want to fix
or improve in their business or life
and again keeping this jargon free
so using the actual words that your
customers have said in these interview
questions
is a great way to put down copy that
resonates with your target audience so
instead of using words like cutting edge
or 360 degree view of our software
use the words that your customers
actually give you to describe the
product
and that can help all of your web and
marketing copy here
design pointers key pages and feature
pointers
so when you ask them about what's
important to you on
a website looking whilst looking at a
vendor's website like ours
make sure you're including these points
so the things that are consistently said
if they said look we want to see reviews
we want to see social proof
we want to see specific case studies
like this or we saw this on a competitor
site which is really
pretty important or we really want to
get an idea of your pricing
and how it's structured before we speak
to sales
all these things that were consistently
said make sure you're noting these down
and gonna include these in the new site
um
and yeah again these points on the
problems your customers bring to you
the copy that the wording the language
they use what's important to them can
not just
educate this new website design and
build and really help you build
something that's going to drive results
but it can also
help you build your marketing copy and
your future
content and in terms of video content
and social media content and
another bonus is this can be used for
testimonial videos so you can chop
and slice up these interviews you do and
you can use them for testimonials there
could be some great case studies if
customers said look
this is the problem i came to with this
is how you help me fix it and this is
what life's like now
if it's all great it's all got some good
stuff you can use this as case study
videos chuck on youtube check on your
podcast
check on your website and that's really
gonna leverage social proof and again
help engagement help boost inbound leads
and sales
and finally it's going to help educate
your customer service
um because you're going to know what's
now most important to your customers and
how you can improve
and ultimately drive yourself and then
more revenue
so finally we've got to put it all into
action um so we've got to make sure that
the new website is going to
can basically educate our customers be a
real useful
resource to them and and make sure we're
using the design pointers the layout
pointers the feature pointers they ask
for in the new design
we're going to make sure that everything
that they've basically said is most
important to them is included
and we want to keep the conversation
going with our customers because like i
said there's so many advantages to it so
regularly talking to your best customers
is going to help you inform your web
your marketing your copy
material in the best possible way
because these are the people that we
want to continually do business with and
get more customers
of their their type so other ideas to do
this if you don't want to do
a video call or email survey um what you
can do is
do social media service surveys like
linkedin facebook have polls
so you can run polls with target
audiences you can put
something called hotjar on your own
website so if you've got an existing
site you can have a hot jar survey that
pops up asking questions like on a scale
of one to five
how easy was our site to use how easy
was it to get in touch with us did you
find everything you're looking for
if you've got an email list you can
offer people a cheeky incentive like a
coffee voucher or a meal voucher or
similar
and get them to give you really useful
feedback and pretty much ask them
all the questions that we have gone
through
today i hope you enjoyed today's episode
on how to design your website to hook
ideal clients be sure to hit subscribe
and do leave a review
and with that we'll catch you on the
next episode cheers for tuning in